2007-06-29  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.17 released.
	* License updated to GPL version 3 or later.
	* `--scale' no more suppresses ORF output.
	* Improved removal of thick frames.
	* Changed `Textline' to accept more than one big initial.
	* Class `Block' renamed to `Blob'.
	* `configure' and `Makefile.in' have been modified to be more
	  GNU-standards compliant.

2006-10-20  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.16 released.
	* Added new option `--filter'.
	* Better algorithm for vertical space detection (blank lines).
	* Some fixes made to `configure' script.
	* Added two new debug levels.
	* Improvements in character recognition.

2006-04-03  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.15 released.
	* Added new argument parser that replaces `getopt_long'.
	* Fixed a bug that prevented compilation with GCC 4.1.

2006-02-15  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.14 released.
	* Ocrad is now able to read ppm files.
	* Added new class `Page_image' (256-level greymap).
	* Added automatic and adaptive binarization by Otsu's method.
	* Added new option `--crop'.
	* Added two new chapters `Image Format Conversion' and
	  `Algorithm' to the texinfo file.
	* Target `check' added to Makefile.
	* Changed `ocrad.png' icon to color, one line.

2005-10-10  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.13 released.
	* Ocrad is now able to read pgm files.
	* Added new rational number class.
	* Use rationals instead of integers in space detection algorithm.
	* Better algorithm for space detection in tables.
	* `vector<bool>' replaced by `vector<char>' in bitmap (faster).
	* Variable-size arrays replaced by vectors in block.cc.
	* Fixed sizeof(size_t) != sizeof(int) on some 64 bit systems.
	* Improved number recognition (mainly in textline_r2.cc).
	* Overflow detection when loading or scaling file.
	* Fixed a miscompilation with GCC 3.3.1.
	* Class `Vrhomboid' merged into files `track.h' and `track.cc'.

2005-06-07  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.12 released.
	* Change in internal representation; Blockmap has been eliminated.
	* Text inside tables of solid lines is now recognized.
	* Improvements in character recognition.
	* Fixed possible integer overflow when loading pbm file.

2005-02-12  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.11 released.
	* Added new option `--scale'.
	* Improvements in character recognition.
	* Fixed bug in `--transform' (introduced in 0.10).

2004-12-09  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.10 released.
	* Added new suboption `-D7X'.
	* Change in internal representation; only 1 Blockmap per Textpage.
	* Use of absolute coordinates in ORF file.
	* Improved space detection algorithm.
	* Improvements in character recognition and separation.

2004-10-23  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.9 released.
	* Added new option `--transform'.
	* `DESTDIR' now works as expected.
	* New class `Textpage' is top of internal representation.

2004-05-23  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.8 released.
	* Better algorithm for line detection.
	* New feature `-x -' (export ORF file to stdout).
	* Small improvements in image elimination.

2004-02-09  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.7 released.
	* Internal change to UCS instead of ISO 8859-1.
	* Default charset is now ISO 8859-15 (latin9).
	* Ocrad now recognizes Turkish characters (ISO 8859-9).
	* Added new output format (UTF-8).
	* Added new options `--charset' and `--format'.
	* Added man page.

2003-12-18  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.6 released.
	* `configure' is now compatible with `sh'.
	* Better algorithm for lowercase-uppercase decision.
	* Small changes to line detector.
	* Fixed bug (output of char 0 when separating some merged chars).

2003-10-18  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.5 released.
	* Corrected bug when creating ORF file from stdin.
	* Added the ability to read multiple files from stdin.
	* Use `vector' instead of `list' due to problem with gcc 3.3.1.
	* Faster "processing" of images.

2003-09-03  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.4 released.
	* More standard configure and Makefile.
	* Added info file.
	* Small changes to layout detector.
	* Character codes > 127 now in ISO_8859_1::<charname> format.
	* Added new option `--invert'.

2003-07-19  Antonio Diaz  <ant_diaz@teleline.es>

	* Version 0.3 released.
	* ORF file feature added.
	* Recursive `layout detector' added.
