{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1040\deflangfe1040{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\f0\fs20\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\lang2057\b\f1\fs24 University of Messina\par
\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Visilab Research Lab\par
\par
\b0\par
\b Nanodesktop distribution version 0.3\par
\par
\f0 CHANGELOG\par
\f1\par
\f0\fs20 0.1\tab\tab 23/12/2006\tab\par
\par
\tab\tab\b0 First release\par
\par
\b 0.2\tab\tab 16/02/2007\tab\par
\tab\tab\par
\tab\tab\b0 1. Introduced NanoTile video acceleration;\par
\tab\tab 2. Introduced \i code deviation\i0 : it guarantees the compatibility of our modified PSPSDK with not\par
\tab\tab     Nanodesktop applications;\par
\tab\tab 3. ndDevIL has been updated on base of 1.6.8 RC2 version of DevIL , integrating new bug fixes;\par
\tab\tab 4. Introduced n different scopes in Nanodesktop library;\par
\tab\tab 5. Introduced KSU (Kernel Services to User) mode;\par
\tab\tab 6. Introduced Raw-IR code in Nanodesktop_HAL;\par
\tab\tab 7. ndHighGUI has been rewritten to ensure fastest rendering;\par
\tab\tab 8. ndHighGUI now supports new error manager system;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li720\tab 9. Makefile_PSPE.mak and Makefile_PSP.mak has been updated to ensure less compilation \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\li720     troubles;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tab           10.  Fixed a trouble in WMI routines that caused a crash when a WinMenuItem had a ZString \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi720\li720     different from its NameItem;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar                        11.  Introduced ndHAL_XFPU wrapper that provides trasparent mathematical acceleration   \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li1440     support;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li1290 12.  Written new cvSumPixels.cpp, with Ultra Fast Integration for faster performances in objects  \par
\pard\nowidctlpar\li1440     recognition;\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tab           13.  Memory manager (malloc and free) now is very faster;\par
\tab           14.  Fixed a trouble in windows maximization/minimization under PSP.\par
\tab           15.  Introduced ndHAL_GetPad_Analog for using PSP pad in analog mode\tab\par
\tab\par
\b 0.3\tab           10/7/2007\par
\b0\tab\par
\tab\tab 1.  Introduced Phoenix Graphical Subsystem: now nd supports multithreading applications;\par
\tab\tab 2.  Added support for TextBoxes, ListBoxes, TextAreas, Control Boxes;\par
\tab\tab 3.  Introduced new API for VirtualKeyboard;\par
\tab\tab 4.  Introduced new type of VirtualKeyboard;\par
\tab\tab 5.  Introduced new API for USB support;\par
\tab\tab 6.  Introduced support for USB attach/detach;\par
\tab\tab 7.  Introduced ndUSBDrv.Prx for USB transfer mode support;\par
\tab\tab 8.  Introduced webcam API and fast video interface;\tab\par
\tab\tab 9.  Scanf and derived functions have been totally rewritten;\par
\tab\tab 10.  Fixed a trouble that caused the missed inhibition of VirtualKeyboard when NanoC broke\par
\tab\tab      data flux from stdin stream;\par
\tab\tab 11.  Added functions difftime, localtime, asctime, mktime, ctime, gmtime, strftime in NanoC;\tab\par
\tab\tab 12.  Added function freopen in stdio.h\par
\tab\tab 13.  Introduce EMI and EMIEMU libraries for VFPU support and VFPU emulation (integrated in\par
\tab\tab        NanoM)\par
\tab             14.  Fixed a trouble that caused a system hang when the user tried to open an image with \par
\tab\tab        DevIL routines, in KSU mode;\par
\tab\tab 15.  ndHighGUI has a new version of cvShowImage, fully optimized\par
\tab\tab 16.  ndHighGUI now supports OpenCV functions for webcam (cvGrabImage, cvReleaseCapture,\par
\tab\tab        and the other functions.....)\par
\tab\tab 17.  cvSumPixel.cpp in OpenCV now can use EMI interface for very faster and hardware assisted \par
\tab\tab        computations;\par
\tab\tab 18.  Introduced Eyeserver/Eyeclient;\par
\tab\tab 19.  Introduced BootScreen and ExitManager when the system works in KSU mode;\par
\tab\tab 20.  Introduced new API for manages mouse events\par
\tab\tab 21.  Introduced ndDelay and new functions ndHAL_HardDelay, ndHAL_SoftDelay, ndHAL_ClockDelay;\tab\par
\tab\tab 22.  Introduced ndLP_CreateWindow (ndLP_AllocateWindow and others are deprecated now)\tab\tab    \tab\tab\tab   \tab\par
\par
\b 0.3.2\tab\tab 24/10/2007\par
\par
\tab\tab\b0 1.    Fixed a trouble with Virtual Keyboard (Dancol bug)\par
\tab\tab 2.    Introduced network support in KSU mode\par
\tab\tab 3.    Introduced ndCurl library for network support\par
\tab\tab 4.    Introduced the first gCurl job\par
\tab\tab 5.    Introduced EAS (Envelope Audio System) for audio support\par
\tab\tab 6.    Introduced Media API per Media Engine WAVE and MP3 decoding (hardware assisted)\par
\tab\tab 7.    Introduced ndFLite for voice synthesis\par
\tab\tab 8.    NanoC has a new architecture, more portable\par
\tab\tab 9.    Fixed troubles with fstat and time functions\par
\tab\tab 10.  Introduced cvAux support in ndOpenCV. Now PentLand (PCA) and EigenFaces recognition\par
\tab\tab        alghoritms are available\par
\tab\tab 11.  ndHAL_WebCam has a new design, ready for future GoCam support\par
\tab\tab 12.  Introduced trasparent firmware control\tab\par
\tab\tab 13.  Fixed a bug that caused missed passage of 64-bit LBoxCode to the LBox items\par
\par
\b 0.3.3\tab\tab 15/1/2008\par
\b0\tab\tab\tab\par
\tab\tab 1.    Introduced new CFW HAL: now nd works also on PSP SLIM or on custom firmwares;\par
\tab\tab 2.    Introduced support for Sony GoCam (only CFW HAL)\par
\tab\tab 3.    Fixed a bug with ndLP_ResizeWindow that caused the hang of Phoenix Subsystem;\par
\tab\tab 4.    Introduced ndHAL_SystemExec function;\par
\tab\tab 5.    Introduced pseudoExec syscall;\par
\tab\tab 6.    Fixed a trouble in network layer that caused the hang of system when DNS was unreachable;\par
\tab\tab 7.    Introduced support for CVAUX alghoritms\par
\tab\tab 8.    Introduced support for SQLLite library;\par
\tab\tab 9.    Introduced support for SIFT alghoritm;\par
\tab\tab 10.  cvFloor and cvCeil have been fixed;\par
\tab\tab 11.  Introduced support for GOCR optical recognition\par
\tab\tab 12.  Improved support for VFPU acceleration;\par
\tab\tab 13.  Phoenix Graphical System is very very faster;\par
\par
\b 0.3.4\b0\tab\tab\b 18/6/2008\b0\par
\par
\tab\tab 1.    Added support for TrueType fonts (via ndFreeType library)\par
\tab\tab 2.    Redesigned NanoC with support for UTF8 widechar and POSIX threads\par
\tab\tab        (via GNU UTF-8 library and EMBPThread library)\tab\par
\tab\tab 3.    Added new NanoC functions (setenv/getenv emulation, mktemp, mkstemp)\par
\tab\tab 4.    Added new NanoCPP (Apache STDCXX standard library) for C++ compatibility;\par
\tab\tab 5.    Introduced ndISpell ortographical corrector\par
\tab\tab 6.    Introduced ndOCRAD (C++ OCR engine)\par
\tab\tab 7.    Cleaned code for TIFF support\par
\tab\tab 8.    Introduced ndZIP for compression/decompression support\par
\tab\tab 9.    Introduced libraries ndeXOSIP2, ndORTP, ndOSIP2 for VOIP support (they will\par
\tab\tab           be used in future ndFurikup support)\par
\tab\tab 10.  Introduced new functions for GoCAM support (ndHAL_CAM_ChangeHwResolution,\par
\tab\tab           \tab ndHAL_CAM_ChangeHwBrightness, ndHAL_CAM_ChangeHwContrast,\par
\tab\tab\tab ndHAL_CAM_ChangeHwSharpness,\par
\tab\tab\tab ndHAL_CAM_GetSaturationLevel, ndHAL_CAM_GetBrightness,\par
\tab\tab\tab ndHAL_CAM_GetContrast, ndHAL_CAM_GetSharpness,\par
\tab\tab\tab ndHAL_CAM_GetHwSensorMode, ndHAL_CAM_GetEvLevel) \par
\tab\tab 11.  Introduced support for GoCam Microphone recording\par
\tab\tab 12.  Introduced Smart JPEG support for GoCam\par
\tab\tab 13.  Introduced support for VFPU assisted LPC-resampling (speed up ndFLite)\par
\tab\tab 14.  Fixed a bug that caused the incorrect termination of media files when the user\par
\tab\tab        asked the interruction of the playing. \par
\tab\tab 15.  Fixed a bug that caused the impossibility to use ndHAL_GetPad when Phoenix\par
\tab\tab       Subsystem was operative and the mouse pointer was on the screen\par
\tab\tab 16.  Fixed a bug that caused an incorrect visualization in the TextBoxes\par
\tab\tab 17.  Fixed a bug that caused a conflict between Windows mkdir and Cygwin mkdir\par
\tab\tab 18.  Fixed a bug that caused an incorrect determination of the memory that is\par
\tab\tab        available in memfree() when the programmer uses memalign\par
\tab\tab 19.  Fixed a trouble of memory violation when the programmer uses malloc and\par
\tab\tab        memset together (critical).  \par
\tab\tab 20.  New chapters in the user guide (TrueType support, network support, ndOpenCV, \par
\tab\tab        ndHighGUI).\par
\tab\tab 21.  Fixed a bug that caused a memory leakage when the programmer used cvEqualizeHist\par
\tab\tab 22.  Fixed a serious bug with ndHAL_UnlockPhoenixGraphThread \par
\tab\tab 23.  Introduced new function ndHAL_MouseControlledByAnalog().\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
          \tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\tab\tab\b\f1\fs24\par
}
 