{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deftab1134{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1023\f0\fs24\par
\par
\pard\qr\b\f1\fs32 Visilab Research Lab\par
\pard University of Messina\b0\fs24\par
\pard\qr\b\f2\fs32\par
\pard\fs24\par
\f0 IMPORTANT: READ BEFORE USE, MODIFY, COPY, REDISTRIBUTE\b0\f2\par
\par
\pard\qj\f0\fs22 This is \b ndFreeType \b0 package. This package provides to nd the support for TrueType\par
fonts.\par
\par
Copyright 1996-2002, 2006 by\par
David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg\f2\par
\par
\b\f0 Visilab Research Lab recognizes the copyright to the original author of the library. It also declares that it accepts all conditions established by the original license.\par
\par
\b0 The original library has been released under FTL license:\par
\par
\f1\fs16 Introduction\par
============\par
\par
  The FreeType  Project is distributed in  several archive packages;\par
  some of them may contain, in addition to the FreeType font engine,\par
  various tools and  contributions which rely on, or  relate to, the\par
  FreeType Project.\par
\par
  This  license applies  to all  files found  in such  packages, and\par
  which do not  fall under their own explicit  license.  The license\par
  affects  thus  the  FreeType   font  engine,  the  test  programs,\par
  documentation and makefiles, at the very least.\par
\par
  This  license   was  inspired  by  the  BSD,   Artistic,  and  IJG\par
  (Independent JPEG  Group) licenses, which  all encourage inclusion\par
  and  use of  free  software in  commercial  and freeware  products\par
  alike.  As a consequence, its main points are that:\par
\par
    o We don't promise that this software works. However, we will be\par
      interested in any kind of bug reports. (`as is' distribution)\par
\par
    o You can  use this software for whatever you  want, in parts or\par
      full form, without having to pay us. (`royalty-free' usage)\par
\par
    o You may not pretend that  you wrote this software.  If you use\par
      it, or  only parts of it,  in a program,  you must acknowledge\par
      somewhere  in  your  documentation  that  you  have  used  the\par
      FreeType code. (`credits')\par
\par
  We  specifically  permit  and  encourage  the  inclusion  of  this\par
  software, with  or without modifications,  in commercial products.\par
  We  disclaim  all warranties  covering  The  FreeType Project  and\par
  assume no liability related to The FreeType Project.\par
\par
\par
  Finally,  many  people  asked  us  for  a  preferred  form  for  a\par
  credit/disclaimer to use in compliance with this license.  We thus\par
  encourage you to use the following text:\par
\par
   """\par
    Portions of this software are copyright \'a9 <year> The FreeType\par
    Project (www.freetype.org).  All rights reserved.\par
   """\par
\par
  Please replace <year> with the value from the FreeType version you\par
  actually use.\par
\par
\par
Legal Terms\par
===========\par
\par
0. Definitions\par
--------------\par
\par
  Throughout this license,  the terms `package', `FreeType Project',\par
  and  `FreeType  archive' refer  to  the  set  of files  originally\par
  distributed  by the  authors  (David Turner,  Robert Wilhelm,  and\par
  Werner Lemberg) as the `FreeType Project', be they named as alpha,\par
  beta or final release.\par
\par
  `You' refers to  the licensee, or person using  the project, where\par
  `using' is a generic term including compiling the project's source\par
  code as  well as linking it  to form a  `program' or `executable'.\par
  This  program is  referred to  as  `a program  using the  FreeType\par
  engine'.\par
\par
  This  license applies  to all  files distributed  in  the original\par
  FreeType  Project,   including  all  source   code,  binaries  and\par
  documentation,  unless  otherwise  stated   in  the  file  in  its\par
  original, unmodified form as  distributed in the original archive.\par
  If you are  unsure whether or not a particular  file is covered by\par
  this license, you must contact us to verify this.\par
\par
  The FreeType  Project is copyright (C) 1996-2000  by David Turner,\par
  Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg.  All rights reserved except as\par
  specified below.\par
\par
1. No Warranty\par
--------------\par
\par
  THE FREETYPE PROJECT  IS PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT  WARRANTY OF ANY\par
  KIND, EITHER  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,  INCLUDING, BUT NOT  LIMITED TO,\par
  WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY   AND  FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR\par
  PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS\par
  BE LIABLE  FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED  BY THE USE OR  THE INABILITY TO\par
  USE, OF THE FREETYPE PROJECT.\par
\par
2. Redistribution\par
-----------------\par
\par
  This  license  grants  a  worldwide, royalty-free,  perpetual  and\par
  irrevocable right  and license to use,  execute, perform, compile,\par
  display,  copy,   create  derivative  works   of,  distribute  and\par
  sublicense the  FreeType Project (in  both source and  object code\par
  forms)  and  derivative works  thereof  for  any  purpose; and  to\par
  authorize others  to exercise  some or all  of the  rights granted\par
  herein, subject to the following conditions:\par
\par
    o Redistribution of  source code  must retain this  license file\par
      (`FTL.TXT') unaltered; any  additions, deletions or changes to\par
      the original  files must be clearly  indicated in accompanying\par
      documentation.   The  copyright   notices  of  the  unaltered,\par
      original  files must  be  preserved in  all  copies of  source\par
      files.\par
\par
    o Redistribution in binary form must provide a  disclaimer  that\par
      states  that  the software is based in part of the work of the\par
      FreeType Team,  in  the  distribution  documentation.  We also\par
      encourage you to put an URL to the FreeType web page  in  your\par
      documentation, though this isn't mandatory.\par
\par
  These conditions  apply to any  software derived from or  based on\par
  the FreeType Project,  not just the unmodified files.   If you use\par
  our work, you  must acknowledge us.  However, no  fee need be paid\par
  to us.\par
\par
3. Advertising\par
--------------\par
\par
  Neither the  FreeType authors and  contributors nor you  shall use\par
  the name of the  other for commercial, advertising, or promotional\par
  purposes without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
  We suggest,  but do not require, that  you use one or  more of the\par
  following phrases to refer  to this software in your documentation\par
  or advertising  materials: `FreeType Project',  `FreeType Engine',\par
  `FreeType library', or `FreeType Distribution'.\par
\par
  As  you have  not signed  this license,  you are  not  required to\par
  accept  it.   However,  as  the FreeType  Project  is  copyrighted\par
  material, only  this license, or  another one contracted  with the\par
  authors, grants you  the right to use, distribute,  and modify it.\par
  Therefore,  by  using,  distributing,  or modifying  the  FreeType\par
  Project, you indicate that you understand and accept all the terms\par
  of this license.\par
\par
4. Contacts\par
-----------\par
\par
  There are two mailing lists related to FreeType:\par
\par
    o freetype@nongnu.org\par
\par
      Discusses general use and applications of FreeType, as well as\par
      future and  wanted additions to the  library and distribution.\par
      If  you are looking  for support,  start in  this list  if you\par
      haven't found anything to help you in the documentation.\par
\par
    o freetype-devel@nongnu.org\par
\par
      Discusses bugs,  as well  as engine internals,  design issues,\par
      specific licenses, porting, etc.\par
\par
  Our home page can be found at\par
\par
    http://www.freetype.org\b\par
\pard\b0\par
\pard\qj\par
}
 