{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\qc\lang1040\b\f0\fs20 Visilab Research Lab\par
University of Messina\par
\pard\b0\par
\par
\b\f1\fs36 NanoCore System Libraries\par
\b0\f0\fs20\par
NanoCore System Libraries is a collection of libraries created to work with Nanodesktop.\par
\par
This collection was created during Nanodesktop development. Nanodesktop is part of\par
Embvision Project Page, a research project of Visilab Center - University of Messina. \par
\par
Actually the package is composed by three libraries:\par
\par
\i - NanoC Library\par
- NanoM Library\par
- NanoCPP Library\par
\par
\b\i0\fs24 NanoC\b0\i\fs20\par
\par
\i0 NanoC library has been created for providing a new libc to Nanodesktop users. The main\par
differences between PSPSDK newlibc and NanoC library are:\par
\par
- NanoC library supports PSPE Emulator and PSP.\par
- NanoC library supports Nanodesktop terminal for StdOut/StdErr streams;\par
- NanoC library supports buffer for disk cache writing;\par
- NanoC library supports routines as printf and derivates..\par
- NanoC library supports widechar routines;\par
- NanoC library supports POSIX threads compatible interfaces (via EMBPThread component). \par
\par
\pard\ri68 NanoC code has been derived by PSPSDK libc library, with some changes in memory allocation, in \par
disk access and in print messages routines.\par
\pard\par
Some routines are derived from AVR Libc, and some other have been written directly by the \par
author  of Nanodesktop. The support for wide-char routines is provided by GNU UTF8 library,\par
the support for POSIX thread is provided by EMBPThread. \par
\par
In the source code, we indicate the origin of each part of the code, the copyright and the license. \par
\par
At beginning from version 0.3.4 the entire NanoC library is released under \b LGPL library. \par
\b0 The final user can use and redistribute it under the terms of GNU Lesser GPL library. \par
\par
\f2       \b\f1\fs16 Nanodesktop NanoC library vers. 0.3.4\par
    \tab Copyright (C) <2008-2013>  \par
\tab <Filippo Battaglia and 3rdparties contributors>\par
\par
\b0     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or\par
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public\par
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either\par
    version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU\par
    Library General Public License for more details.\par
\par
    You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public\par
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free\par
    Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,\par
    MA 02111-1307, USA\par
\par
\f0\fs20\par
\b The author declares that this library contains code that owns to third parties. \par
\par
Visilab Research Lab recognizes copyright on the different portions \par
of code to their respective owners, and in particular:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-852\li852\lang2057\f1\par
\par
\par
 \fs16 * PSP Software Development Kit - http://www.pspdev.org\par
\b0  * ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
 * Licensed under the BSD license, see LICENSE in PSPSDK root for details.\par
 *\par
 * ctype.h\par
 * cxx.cpp, errno.h, init.c, malloc.h (only PSP routines), qsort.c, stdio.h\par
 * (only some structures, see file), stdlib.c (only some routines, see file),\par
 * malloc.h (only PSP section), stdlib.h, string.c, string.h, terminate.c,\par
 * time.c, time.h, xprintf, stat, tzset  \par
 *\par
 * Copyright (c) 2002-2004 PS2DEV\par
 * Copyright (c) 2005 Marcus R. Brown <mrbrown@ocgnet.org>\par
 * Copyright (c) 2005 James Forshaw <tyranid@gmail.com>\par
 * Copyright (c) 2005 John Kelley <ps2dev@kelley.ca>\par
 * ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
 \par
\pard\nowidctlpar * \b  Routines sscanf, vfscanf, and similar\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\fi-852\li852\b0 *  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\pard\nowidctlpar *  Avr-Libc http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/\par
*  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
*  Copyright (c) 2002, Joerg Wunsch\par
*  All rights reserved.\par
*  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
\b * strtol, strtoul\par
* -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\b0\par
* University of Berkeley\par
 *  Copyright (c) 1990, 1993\par
 *      The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by\par
 * Chris Torek.\par
* -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
* \b Routine atoi, atoul\par
\b0 * ----------------------------------------------------------\par
* Copyright Andy Wilson, 2-Oct-89\par
* ----------------------------------------------------------\par
\fs20\par
\b\fs16 * Routines strtod, atof\par
\b0\fs20 * ------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\fs16 *  Copyright (C) 2002 Michael Ringgaard. All rights reserved.\par
* -------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\pard\lang1040\f0\fs20\par
\par
\b\f1\fs16 pthreads-win32 - a POSIX threads library for Microsoft Windows\par
\b0 * ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\par
This file is Copyrighted\par
\par
    This file is covered under the following Copyright:\par
\par
\tab Copyright (C) 2001,2006 Ross P. Johnson\par
\tab All rights reserved.\par
\par
\tab Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\par
\tab of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\par
\par
Pthreads-win32 is covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License\par
\par
    Pthreads-win32 is open software; you can redistribute it and/or\par
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License\par
    as published by the Free Software Foundation version 2.1 of the\par
    License.\par
\par
    Pthreads-win32 is several binary link libraries, several modules,\par
    associated interface definition files and scripts used to control\par
    its compilation and installation.\par
\par
    Pthreads-win32 is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the\par
    GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
\par
    A copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License is distributed with\par
    pthreads-win32 under the filename:\par
\par
\tab     COPYING.LIB\par
\par
    You should have received a copy of the version 2.1 GNU Lesser General\par
    Public License with pthreads-win32; if not, write to:\par
\par
\tab     Free Software Foundation, Inc.\par
\tab     59 Temple Place\par
\tab     Suite 330\par
\tab     Boston, MA\tab 02111-1307\par
\tab     USA\par
\par
    The contact addresses for pthreads-win32 is as follows:\par
\par
        Web:\tab http://sources.redhat.com/pthreads-win32\par
        Email:  Ross Johnson\par
                Please use: Firstname.Lastname@homemail.com.au\par
\par
* ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\f2\fs20\par
\b\f1\fs16 Pthreads-embedded (PTE) - POSIX Threads Library for embedded systems\par
* ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\b0  *      Copyright(C) 2008 Jason Schmidlapp\par
 *       Copyright(C) 1998 John E. Bossom\par
 *      Copyright(C) 1999,2005 Pthreads-win32 contributors\par
 *\par
 *\par
 *      Contact Email: jschmidlapp@users.sourceforge.net\par
 *\par
 *      This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or\par
 *      modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public\par
 *      License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either\par
 *      version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
 *\par
 *      This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
 *      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
 *      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU\par
 *      Lesser General Public License for more details.\par
 *\par
 *      You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public\par
 *      License along with this library in the file COPYING.LIB;\par
 *      if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,\par
 *      59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA\par
 \b * ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\b0\f2\fs20\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\lang2057\b\i\f1\par
\pard\lang1040\i0\fs16 GNU-UTF8 library - a library for UTF8/widechar support\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\lang2057\b0\fs20 * ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\par
\fs16 Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.\par
This file is part of the GNU UTF-8 Library.\par
\par
The GNU UTF-8 Library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or\par
modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as\par
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the\par
License, or (at your option) any later version.\par
\par
The GNU UTF-8 Library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\par
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\par
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU\par
Library General Public License for more details.\par
\pard\fs20 * ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\lang1040\f0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\lang2057\f1 See the file ORIGINAL_COPYING.rtf and ORIGINAL_CONTRIBUTORS.rtf \par
in the src/nanoc_3rdparty folder for further informations. \par
\par
\pard\lang1040\f0\par
\fs16\par
\par
\b\fs24 NanoM\b0\i\fs20\par
\i0\par
NanoM library is composed by four component. \par
\par
The first component is composed by the normal mathematical routines provided with\par
PSPSDK. We have created a new makefile that is able to recompile the code \par
to work either with PSPE or with PSP. All routines are software-implemented. \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\lang2057\f1 These routines are provided by Sun Microsystem. We report here the relative\par
license:\par
\par
\fs16 * ====================================================\par
 * Copyright (C) 1993 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Developed at SunPro, a Sun Microsystems, Inc. business.\par
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this\par
 * software is freely granted, provided that this notice \par
 * is preserved.\par
 * ====================================================\par
 *\par
\fs20\par
The second component (src/vfpu) is constituted by pspmathlib_v3 freely downloadable\par
by the site of mrmrIce (http://mrmrice.fx-world.org/libpspmath.zip).\par
\par
\b\i This document recognizes copyright on the portions of code contained in NanoM library \par
(and so, in this binary program) to Sun Microsystem and to mrmrIce. \par
\par
\b0\i0 The third and forth component are EMI (Enhanced Mathematical Interface) and EMIEMU\par
(Enhanced Mathematical Interface - Emulated). \par
\par
These components have been written by Filippo Battaglia. They allow to program VFPU for \par
parallel calculus without using inline assembler. \par
\par
The two libraries are released under BSD license.\par
\par
   \b\fs16 Enhanced Mathematical Interface\par
    Copyright 2007-2012 Filippo Battaglia \par
   \b0\par
    This library allows you to program PSP VFPU without using inline assembly\par
    \par
    This work has been developed by the author as research project in Visilab\par
    Research Center - University of Messina - Italy\par
\par
    IMPORTANT: READ BEFORE DOWNLOADING, COPYING, INSTALLING OR USING.\par
        \par
    By downloading, copying, installing or using the software you agree to this license.\par
    If you do not agree to this license, do not download, install,\par
    copy or use the software.\par
    \par
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,\par
    are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:\par
    \par
      * Redistribution's of source code must retain the above copyright notice,\par
        this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
    \par
      * Redistribution's in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,\par
        this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation\par
        and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
    \par
      * The name of the Visilab research center may not be used to endorse or promote products\par
        derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
    \par
    This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as is" and\par
    any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied\par
    warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed.\par
    In no event shall the author of the software, the Visilab Research Center or \par
    contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, \par
    or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute \par
    goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) \par
    however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability,\par
    or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of\par
    the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.\par
\fs20  \par
\par
\pard\lang1040\b\f0\fs24 NanoCPP\par
\par
\b0\fs20 NanoCPP is a version of Apache STDCXX that has been heavily modified\par
and adapted to work in nd environment. \par
\par
It derives from \b Apache STDCXX version 4.2.0.\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\lang2057\f1 This component provides support for a standard C++ library. It has\par
been released under \i Apache license. \par
\par
\b\i0\fs16 Apache C++ Standard Library - stdcxx\par
\b0\par
Copyright 2005-2007 The Apache Software Foundation.\par
\par
This product includes software developed at The Apache Software Foundation\par
(http://www.apache.org/).\par
\par
Portions of this software were developed at Rogue Wave Software, Inc.,\par
Copyright (c) 1994-2007.\par
\par
This software contains code derived from the HP Standard Template Library,\par
Copyright (c) 1994 Hewlett-Packard Company.\par
\par
\fs20 A copy of the license is reported here:\par
\par
\tab\tab\tab\b\fs16 Apache License\par
                           \tab\tab Version 2.0, January 2004\par
                        \tab\tab http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
\b0\par
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
\par
   1. Definitions.\par
\par
      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
\par
      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by\par
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
\par
      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all\par
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common\par
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,\par
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the\par
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or\par
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the\par
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
\par
      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity\par
      exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
\par
      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,\par
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation\par
      source, and configuration files.\par
\par
      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical\par
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but\par
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,\par
      and conversions to other media types.\par
\par
      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or\par
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a\par
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work\par
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
\par
      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object\par
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the\par
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications\par
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes\par
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain\par
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,\par
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
\par
      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including\par
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions\par
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally\par
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner\par
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of\par
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"\par
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent\par
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,\par
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the\par
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but\par
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise\par
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."\par
\par
      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity\par
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and\par
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
\par
   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,\par
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the\par
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
\par
   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,\par
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,\par
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable\par
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their\par
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)\par
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You\par
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a\par
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work\par
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct\par
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses\par
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate\par
      as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
\par
   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the\par
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without\par
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You\par
      meet the following conditions:\par
\par
      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or\par
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
\par
      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices\par
          stating that You changed the files; and\par
\par
      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works\par
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and\par
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,\par
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of\par
          the Derivative Works; and\par
\par
      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its\par
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must\par
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained\par
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not\par
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one\par
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed\par
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or\par
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,\par
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and\par
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents\par
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and\par
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution\par
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside\par
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided\par
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed\par
          as modifying the License.\par
\par
      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and\par
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions\par
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or\par
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,\par
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with\par
      the conditions stated in this License.\par
\par
   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,\par
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work\par
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of\par
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.\par
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify\par
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed\par
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
\par
   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade\par
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,\par
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the\par
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
\par
   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or\par
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each\par
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or\par
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions\par
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A\par
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the\par
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any\par
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.\par
\par
   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,\par
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,\par
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly\par
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be\par
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,\par
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a\par
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the\par
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,\par
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all\par
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor\par
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
\par
   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing\par
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,\par
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,\par
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this\par
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only\par
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf\par
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,\par
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability\par
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason\par
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
\par
   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
\par
   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.\par
\par
      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following\par
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"\par
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include\par
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate\par
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a\par
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the\par
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier\par
      identification within third-party archives.\par
\par
   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]\par
\par
   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");\par
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.\par
   You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
\par
       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\par
\par
   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\par
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\par
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and\par
   limitations under the License.\par
\b\i\fs20\par
\pard\lang1040\b0\i0\f0\par
\b\fs24 Redistribution\par
\par
\b0\fs20 Remember that if you want to redistribute source code of NanoC, NanoM or\par
NanoCPP, you can at condition that this document accompains the library.\par
 \par
\par
\par
\par
}
 